README.md, before:

# Entomology Study Guide - Science Olympiad 2026

Interactive flashcards and browse interface for studying insects for Science Olympiad 2026.

## Features

- **Flashcards** (`index.html`): Interactive flashcards with images, distinguishing marks, and optional family filtering
- **Browse** (`browse.html`): Browse insects by order with notes, PDF export, and detailed information
- **Shared Data**: All insect metadata stored in `insects-data.json` for easy maintenance
- **Shared Code**: Common functionality in `shared.js` (data loading, image fetching, URL generation)

## File Structure

```
├── index.html              # Flashcard interface
├── browse.html             # Browse interface
├── insects-data.json       # Insect metadata (123 families, 27 optional)
├── shared.js               # Shared JavaScript functions
├── shared.css              # Shared CSS styles
├── images/                 # Local specimen images (Order/Family/specimen.jpg)
└── README.md               # This file
```

## Image Naming Convention

Local specimen images should be placed in `images/[Order]/[Family]/` with the following naming:

- **Required format**: `specimen1.jpg`, `specimen2.jpg`, `specimen3.jpg`, etc.
- **Do NOT use**: `specimen.jpg` (without a number)

**Important**: 
- Always start with `specimen1.jpg` (not specimen.jpg)
- Use sequential numbering with **no gaps** (specimen1, specimen2, specimen3...)
- The system checks up to `specimen10.jpg`
- If there's a gap (e.g., specimen1.jpg exists but specimen2.jpg doesn't), it will stop checking
- Multiple images for a family will create separate flashcards for each image
- If no local images exist, the system falls back to Wikipedia API

**Examples**:
```
images/Coleoptera/Cerambycidae/specimen1.jpg
images/Coleoptera/Cerambycidae/specimen2.jpg
images/Coleoptera/Cerambycidae/specimen3.jpg
```

**Note**: You'll see 404 errors in the browser console when checking for non-existent images. This is normal and doesn't affect functionality.

## Data Structure

The `insects-data.json` file contains 123 families from 26 orders, including:
- 27 optional families (State/National level only)
- Common names, scientific names, distinguishing marks
- Wikipedia and BugGuide reference IDs

## Local Development

**You must run a local web server** (browsers block fetch() from file:// URLs):

**Option 1: Python**
```bash
python -m http.server 8000
```

**Option 2: Node.js**
```bash
npx http-server -p 8000
```

**Option 3: VS Code Live Server**
- Install "Live Server" extension
- Right-click `index.html` → "Open with Live Server"

Then open `http://localhost:8000/index.html` or `http://localhost:8000/browse.html`

## GitHub Pages Deployment

1. Push to GitHub
2. Enable GitHub Pages in repository settings
3. Select branch and root folder
4. Access at `https://[username].github.io/[repo-name]/`

## Notes

- Notes are stored in browser localStorage
- Export/import notes as JSON
- PDF export excludes optional families
- Images loaded from local `images/` folder or Wikipedia API fallback

## Shared Functions (shared.js)

- `loadInsectsData()` - Loads insects-data.json
- `fetchInsectImage(insect)` - Fetches image with local/Wikipedia fallback
- `getNcStateUrl(insect)` - Generates NC State Entomology URL
- `getBugGuideUrl(insect)` - Generates BugGuide URL
- `getWikipediaUrl(insect)` - Generates Wikipedia URL

Commit message:

Added insects-notes.json. Updated README.md

README.md, after:

# Entomology Study Guide - Science Olympiad 2026

Interactive flashcards and browse interface for studying insects for Science Olympiad 2026.

## Features

- **Flashcards** (`index.html`): Interactive flashcards with images, distinguishing marks, and optional family filtering
  - Multi-select order filter to focus on specific insect orders
  - Multiple images per family create separate flashcards (local + Wikipedia)
  - Random image selection for variety
  - Lazy loading for fast initial page load
- **Browse** (`browse.html`): Browse insects by order with notes, PDF export, and detailed information
  - Image carousel for families with multiple specimens
  - Full-screen image modal viewer
  - Collaborative notes system (repository + localStorage)
  - Export notes to share with others
- **Shared Data**: All insect metadata stored in `insects-data.json` for easy maintenance
- **Shared Code**: Common functionality in `shared.js` (data loading, image fetching, URL generation)
- **Shared Styles**: Common CSS in `shared.css` for consistent design

## File Structure

```
├── index.html              # Flashcard interface
├── browse.html             # Browse interface
├── insects-data.json       # Insect metadata (123 families, 27 optional)
├── insects-notes.json      # Shared notes (exported by users, loaded on page load)
├── shared.js               # Shared JavaScript functions
├── shared.css              # Shared CSS styles
├── bugguide-links.json     # BugGuide URL mappings
├── images/                 # Local specimen images (Order/Family/specimen1.jpg, specimen2.jpg, etc.)
└── README.md               # This file
```

## Image Naming Convention

Local specimen images should be placed in `images/[Order]/[Family]/` with the following naming:

- **Required format**: `specimen1.jpg`, `specimen2.jpg`, `specimen3.jpg`, etc.
- **Do NOT use**: `specimen.jpg` (without a number)

**Important**: 
- Always start with `specimen1.jpg` (not specimen.jpg)
- Use sequential numbering with **no gaps** (specimen1, specimen2, specimen3...)
- The system checks up to `specimen10.jpg`
- If there's a gap (e.g., specimen1.jpg exists but specimen2.jpg doesn't), it will stop checking
- Multiple images for a family will create separate flashcards for each image
- If no local images exist, the system falls back to Wikipedia API

**Examples**:
```
images/Coleoptera/Cerambycidae/specimen1.jpg
images/Coleoptera/Cerambycidae/specimen2.jpg
images/Coleoptera/Cerambycidae/specimen3.jpg
```

**Note**: You'll see 404 errors in the browser console when checking for non-existent images. This is normal and doesn't affect functionality.

## Data Structure

The `insects-data.json` file contains 123 families from 26 orders, including:
- 27 optional families (State/National level only)
- Common names, scientific names, distinguishing marks
- Wikipedia and BugGuide reference IDs

## Local Development

**You must run a local web server** (browsers block fetch() from file:// URLs):

**Option 1: Python**
```bash
python -m http.server 8000
```

**Option 2: Node.js**
```bash
npx http-server -p 8000
```

**Option 3: VS Code Live Server**
- Install "Live Server" extension
- Right-click `index.html` → "Open with Live Server"

Then open `http://localhost:8000/index.html` or `http://localhost:8000/browse.html`

## GitHub Pages Deployment

1. Push to GitHub
2. Enable GitHub Pages in repository settings
3. Select branch and root folder
4. Access at `https://[username].github.io/[repo-name]/`

## Notes

- Notes are stored in browser localStorage
- Repository notes are loaded from `insects-notes.json` on page load
- User edits in localStorage take precedence over repository notes
- Export/import notes as JSON
- PDF export excludes optional families
- Images loaded from local `images/` folder or Wikipedia API fallback

### Sharing Notes with Others

1. Add your notes in the browse view
2. Click "💾 Export Notes" to download `insects-notes.json`
3. Replace the `insects-notes.json` file in the repository with your exported file
4. Commit and push to share with other users
5. Other users will see your notes when they load the page (their localStorage edits will override)

## Shared Functions (shared.js)

- `loadInsectsData()` - Loads insects-data.json
- `fetchInsectImage(insect)` - Fetches image with local/Wikipedia fallback
- `getNcStateUrl(insect)` - Generates NC State Entomology URL
- `getBugGuideUrl(insect)` - Generates BugGuide URL
- `getWikipediaUrl(insect)` - Generates Wikipedia URL
